Q1)- How do you check disk usage in Linux?
A: df -h, du -sh
1. df -h (Disk Free)
The df command is used to show the amount of disk space used and available on the file system. The -h option stands for "human-readable," which means it will display the disk usage in a format that is easy to understand (e.g., in GB, MB, etc., rather than in bytes).
2. du -sh (Disk Usage)
The du command stands for "disk usage," and it shows how much space a directory or file is using. The -s option means "summary," so it shows only the total disk usage for the specified directory (instead of listing usage for every subdirectory). The -h option, like with df, makes the output human-readable.
If you want to check the disk usage of all directories inside a specific path, you can omit the -s option


Q2)- How can you check memory usage on a Linux system?
A: To check memory usage on a Linux system, there are several commands you can use.
the most common ones: free -m, top, and htop.
1. free -m (Memory Usage)
The free command provides a quick summary of the system's memory usage, showing total, used, free, shared, and available memory.
2. top (Task and Memory Monitor)
The top command provides a dynamic, real-time view of your system, including memory usage, running processes, CPU usage, and more. It updates every few seconds.
3. htop (Interactive Process Viewer)
The htop command is similar to top, but it provides a more user-friendly, interactive, and colorful display. It shows memory and CPU usage, running processes, and allows you to interact with the system more easily (like killing processes, sorting, etc.).
Key Differences Between free -m, top, and htop:
free -m: Simple and quick summary of memory usage. Great for a quick look at overall memory usage.
top: Real-time dynamic view of system processes and memory usage. Good for monitoring system performance and checking individual processes.
htop: An enhanced, interactive version of top, providing a more colorful and user-friendly display. It’s great for interactive use and process management.

Q3)- How do you display the content of a file in Linux?
A: cat, less, more

Q4)- How would you find a file by name in Linux?
A: find /path/to/search -name filename
Q5) How can you search for a text pattern within a file in Linux?
A: grep "pattern" file

Q5)- What is the difference between a hard link and a soft (symbolic) link?
A: Hard link:- A hard link is a second name for an existing file, pointing to the same inode and data on disk. Both the original file and the hard link are indistinguishable and share the same data.
   Soft link:- A soft link is like a shortcut to another file or folder. It contains the path to the original file, and if the original is deleted, the link stops working.
    
Feature	            Hard Link                                                            Soft (Symbolic) Link
-------------       -----------------------------------------------------------      -----------------------------------------------------------                                                      
Target	          Points directly to the file's inode.	                          Points to the file's path (location).
Inode	            Same inode number as the original file.	                        Has its own inode.
Directories	      Cannot link to directories (except by root).	                  Can link to directories.
Cross-filesystem	Cannot link across different filesystems.	                      Can link across different filesystems.
File Deletion	    The link remains valid even if the original file is deleted.	  Becomes broken if the original file is deleted or moved.
Link Type	        Identical file, no distinction between original and link.      	A special file that points to the original file by its path.
Permissions	      Same permissions and ownership as the original file.	          Has its own permissions, typically different from the original.















